docs/admin-guide/operations/clients.md, before:

# Client Management

KrakenHashes allows associating hashlists with specific clients or engagements. This helps organize work and enables tailored settings, such as data retention policies.

## Overview

-   **Purpose:** Clients represent distinct entities (e.g., internal teams, external customers, specific penetration testing engagements) for which hashlists are managed.
-   **Association:** Hashlists can be optionally linked to a client during upload.
-   **Administration:** Administrators can create, view, update, and delete client records.

## Managing Clients via API

Administrators use the following API endpoints to manage clients:

-   **`GET /api/admin/clients`**
    -   **Description:** Lists all existing clients.
    -   **Response:** An array of client objects.

-   **`POST /api/admin/clients`**
    -   **Description:** Creates a new client.
    -   **Request Body (Example):**
        ```json
        {
          "name": "Project Hydra",
          "description": "Q3 Internal Assessment",
          "contact_info": "team-lead@example.com"
        }
        ```
    -   `name` is required and must be unique.
    -   `description` and `contact_info` are optional.
    -   **Response:** The newly created client object.

-   **`GET /api/admin/clients/{id}`**
    -   **Description:** Retrieves details for a specific client by its UUID.
    -   **Response:** A single client object.

-   **`PUT /api/admin/clients/{id}`**
    -   **Description:** Updates an existing client.
    -   **Request Body:** Same format as POST, but fields are optional (only provided fields are updated).
    -   **Response:** The updated client object.

-   **`DELETE /api/admin/clients/{id}`**
    -   **Description:** Deletes a client.
    -   **Important:** Deleting a client typically also involves cleaning up associated resources like hashlists or reassigning them. The exact behavior might depend on implementation details (e.g., whether associated hashlists are deleted or disassociated).
    -   **Response:** Typically a 204 No Content on success.

## Client-Specific Data Retention

Administrators can configure data retention policies specific to each client. This overrides the default system-wide retention setting (see [Data Retention](./data-retention.md)).

-   **Purpose:** Allows different retention periods for data belonging to different clients or engagements.
-   **Configuration:** Client retention settings are managed alongside other client details, likely via the `PUT /api/admin/clients/{id}` endpoint or dedicated sub-endpoints (check API definition for specifics).
    -   **Expected Fields (Example):**
        ```json
        {
          "name": "Project Hydra",
          "description": "Q3 Internal Assessment",
          // ... other client fields
          "retention_months": 30,       // Months to retain hashlists for THIS client
          "retention_override": true  // Must be true to use retention_days
        }
        ```
-   **Precedence:** Client-specific retention policy **always** takes precedence over the default policy.

Commit message:

feat(docs): comprehensive documentation enhancement with UI screenshots
## Screenshots Added (20 total)
- Renamed all screenshots with descriptive names for clarity
- Added dashboard overview to README.md main page
- Integrated screenshots across 18 documentation files

## Documentation Updates

### User-Facing Documentation
- **Getting Started**: Added dashboard, hashlist management, and results screenshots
- **User Guide**: Enhanced with visual references for core features
- **Jobs & Workflows**: Added job management interface screenshot
- **Hashlists**: Added management and detail view screenshots
- **Analyzing Results**: Added all three POT view levels (master, client, hashlist)
- **Wordlists & Rules**: Added management interface screenshots

### Administrative Documentation
- **Agent Management**: Added management interface and detail view screenshots
- **Email Settings**: Added configuration interface screenshot
- **User Management**: Added user list and profile settings screenshots
- **Client Management**: Added client interface screenshot
- **Resource Management**: Added rules management screenshot
- **Monitoring**: Added device monitoring dashboard screenshots
- **Scheduling**: Added weekly schedule configuration screenshot
- **Presets**: Added preset jobs and workflows screenshots

## Impact
- 25 strategic screenshot placements across documentation
- Improved user onboarding with visual confirmation
- Enhanced admin guides with interface references
- Better accessibility with descriptive captions for all images
- Professional documentation appearance with consistent visual aids

## Technical Changes
- Renamed screenshots from timestamp-based to content-descriptive names
- Maintained relative path structure for all image references
- Added alt text and captions for accessibility compliance

docs/admin-guide/operations/clients.md, after:

# Client Management

KrakenHashes allows associating hashlists with specific clients or engagements. This helps organize work and enables tailored settings, such as data retention policies.

## Overview

-   **Purpose:** Clients represent distinct entities (e.g., internal teams, external customers, specific penetration testing engagements) for which hashlists are managed.
-   **Association:** Hashlists can be optionally linked to a client during upload.
-   **Administration:** Administrators can create, view, update, and delete client records.

![Client Management Interface](../../assets/images/screenshots/client_management.png)
*Client Management page showing the data table with columns for Name, Description, Contact, Retention period, Creation date, and available Actions*

## Managing Clients via API

Administrators use the following API endpoints to manage clients:

-   **`GET /api/admin/clients`**
    -   **Description:** Lists all existing clients.
    -   **Response:** An array of client objects.

-   **`POST /api/admin/clients`**
    -   **Description:** Creates a new client.
    -   **Request Body (Example):**
        ```json
        {
          "name": "Project Hydra",
          "description": "Q3 Internal Assessment",
          "contact_info": "team-lead@example.com"
        }
        ```
    -   `name` is required and must be unique.
    -   `description` and `contact_info` are optional.
    -   **Response:** The newly created client object.

-   **`GET /api/admin/clients/{id}`**
    -   **Description:** Retrieves details for a specific client by its UUID.
    -   **Response:** A single client object.

-   **`PUT /api/admin/clients/{id}`**
    -   **Description:** Updates an existing client.
    -   **Request Body:** Same format as POST, but fields are optional (only provided fields are updated).
    -   **Response:** The updated client object.

-   **`DELETE /api/admin/clients/{id}`**
    -   **Description:** Deletes a client.
    -   **Important:** Deleting a client typically also involves cleaning up associated resources like hashlists or reassigning them. The exact behavior might depend on implementation details (e.g., whether associated hashlists are deleted or disassociated).
    -   **Response:** Typically a 204 No Content on success.

## Client-Specific Data Retention

Administrators can configure data retention policies specific to each client. This overrides the default system-wide retention setting (see [Data Retention](./data-retention.md)).

-   **Purpose:** Allows different retention periods for data belonging to different clients or engagements.
-   **Configuration:** Client retention settings are managed alongside other client details, likely via the `PUT /api/admin/clients/{id}` endpoint or dedicated sub-endpoints (check API definition for specifics).
    -   **Expected Fields (Example):**
        ```json
        {
          "name": "Project Hydra",
          "description": "Q3 Internal Assessment",
          // ... other client fields
          "retention_months": 30,       // Months to retain hashlists for THIS client
          "retention_override": true  // Must be true to use retention_days
        }
        ```
-   **Precedence:** Client-specific retention policy **always** takes precedence over the default policy.
